Why should we speak with conviction?
Because our conviction can convey more powerfully than words alone
how we really feel about our message.
At first, that's only in 1.5, the Apostle Paul wrote,
the good news we preached did not come to you with speech alone,
but with strong conviction.
So how do we show that we're convinced
that the good news of God's kingdom is the most valuable message we could share?
First, we prepare thoroughly.
In other words, we convince ourselves of the value of our message.
Second, we choose words that convey our conviction.
And finally, we express ourselves earnestly and sincerely.
For instance, how would you express yourself if you were giving a talk about the resurrection?
Let's watch an example.
Jesus resurrected Lazarus.
How can that Bible account help us?
Well, if we have lost loved ones in death, we can put our trust in the resurrection.
The speaker is correct.
But did he express firm conviction?
Not really.
We learn how to express ourselves with conviction from Jesus and Martha in this very Bible account.
John 11, 23 records Jesus' words.
Your brother will rise.
With these words, Jesus expressed complete conviction.
Also, verse 24 records Martha's reply.
I know he will rise in the resurrection on the last day.
Martha too expressed her firm conviction.
Let's now give our brother another chance.
Jesus resurrected Lazarus.
How does this Bible account help us?
Well, when loved ones fall asleep in death, we know we'll see them again.
The fulfillment of Jehovah's promises is as sure as the sun rising each day.
Jehovah will awaken our dear loved ones to life and paradise.
What a difference.
Not only did the speaker express himself earnestly, but he chose words that showed his firm belief in the resurrection hope.
Can we express similar conviction in the ministry?
Yes.
And this is especially important when our faith is challenged.
Imagine, for instance, that a schoolmate, a teacher, or a workmate express a surprise that you don't join in a certain celebration.
How will you respond?
So you're coming to the Christmas party next week, right?
I don't think I can make it.
What do you mean?
Everybody's going to be there?
I'm kind of busy.
Plus, I'd fill out a place I don't celebrate Christmas.
Our sister wasn't prepared to address a common situation during the holiday season.
With more preparation, she could have responded with conviction.
Let's watch.
So you're coming to the Christmas party next week, right?
I appreciate the invitation. I won't be going.
You won't be going. Everybody's going to be there.
I've made a personal decision not to celebrate Christmas.
Really? Why?
I'm one of Jehovah's Witnesses, and I've learned through a study of the Bible that Jesus wasn't really born in December.
And that Christmas is based on unscriptural customs and ideas.
If you have just a moment, I'd like to show you a web article that discusses the origin of some Christmas customs.
Sure.
Because our sister spoke with conviction, she actually peaked the interest of her coworker.
Of course, expressing ourselves with conviction should not be confused with being tactless, opinionated, or pushy.
By appealing to our listeners in a loving manner, expressed with conviction,
we will draw still others to the glorious good news found in God's Word.